---
title: "Disney and OpenAI, Totems in an AI World, Google Versus the World"
reader_id: "01kchj1tdyzqq5202gz34gbn3v"
notion_page_id: "3464ebe7-f118-81cf-a775-cf94e1cae9cc"
category: "rss"
source_type: "Reader RSS"
reader_url: "https://read.readwise.io/read/01kchj1tdyzqq5202gz34gbn3v"
source_url: "https://stratechery.com/2025/disney-and-openai-totems-in-an-ai-world-google-versus-the-world/"
author: "Ben Thompson"
site: "Stratechery by Ben Thompson"
tags: []
published: "2025-12-15"
saved_at: "2025-12-15"
reading_time: "7 mins"
summary: "Disney made a deal with OpenAI, which both speaks to the durability of Disney's assets and to OpenAI's competition with Google."
content_hash: "94e25e2be454ff5231053a7b756f363f9c09553d04894c3f7bd94e54b11064e0"
---

Disney made a deal with OpenAI, which both speaks to the durability of Disney's assets and to OpenAI's competition with Google.

* * *

[Listen to this Update in your podcast player](<https://stratechery.passport.online/>)

* * *

Good morning,

On [Thursday’s episode of Sharp Tech](<https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/netflix-opportunities-and-anxieties-merger-hurdles-to-come-hollywoods-endgame-and-what-comes-next>), Andrew and I discussed Netflix’s acquisition of Warner Bros.

This is the last week of Updates for 2025; expect two Updates, including today, an Interview, and the annual Year in Review. After that Stratechery and most Stratechery Plus properties will be off for two weeks, and return on Monday, January 5.

On to the Update:

### Disney and OpenAI

From the [Wall Street Journal](<https://www.wsj.com/business/media/disney-to-invest-1-billion-in-openai-license-characters-for-use-in-chatgpt-sora-3a4916e2>):

> Disney is making a $1 billion investment in OpenAI and will allow the AI platform to use its characters and properties to generate short, user-prompted social videos. Disney’s three-year licensing deal will let users generate videos using Sora, OpenAI’s short-form AI video platform, of more than 200 Disney, Marvel, Star Wars and Pixar characters. A curated selection of these short videos will be available to stream on Disney+…
>
> Disney and OpenAI announced their deal a day after Disney sent a cease-and-desist letter to Google accusing the tech giant of “infringing Disney’s copyrights on a massive scale,” demonstrating the carrot-and-stick approach it is taking to artificial intelligence. Alphabet’s Google is the biggest tech company to incur Disney’s wrath for allegedly using copyright material to train its AI systems and allowing its tools to output material that violates copyrights. The Disney letter includes dozens of images and screenshots of videos created with Google’s Gemini, Nano Banana and Veo apps featuring Disney-owned characters like Darth Vader, Homer Simpson and Spider-Man.
>
> OpenAI will compensate Disney to use its characters in Sora, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The companies didn’t disclose financial terms of the arrangement. In addition to its $1 billion investment, Disney is getting warrants to buy more stock in OpenAI at its current $500 billion valuation.

This is an interesting deal, in part because Sora 1 sent such tremors through Hollywood; now the biggest Hollywood Studio (just ahead of Warner Bros.) is licensing its assets for the Sora app. What changed?

Perhaps the correct answer is to look at what didn’t: what makes Disney unique is its massive stable of copyrighted characters, thanks to its long history of animation and purchase of Pixar, Star Wars, Marvel, and 21st Century Fox. One big advantage of owning these franchises is that their value is independent of individual actors; this helps ensure that Disney retains a greater share of the profits generated by their copyrighted characters, because there isn’t a human who can hold them hostage. Or, to put it another way, Disney is, more than any other Hollywood Studio, the most tech-like in its economics: it has tremendously valuable assets that it can leverage again and again at zero marginal cost.

You see the implications of that in this deal; from [The Hollywood Reporter](<https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/business/business-news/bob-iger-openai-deal-paramount-netflix-warner-bros-1236448029/>):

> As for what consumers can expect with the Sora deal, Iger said that the deal encompasses some 200 characters, as well as props (like lightsabers) and worlds from Disney IP. Notably it will not include the voices of characters. Sora users will also be able to insert themselves into scenes. The deal is partially exclusive, meaning that Disney characters will be exclusive to Sora for a window (Iger suggested it is around a year)…
>
> “We are not including name and likeness, nor are we including character voices. So in reality, this does not in any way represent a threat to the creators at all,” Iger continued. “In fact, the opposite. I think it honors them and respects them, in part because there’s a license fee associated with it. The other thing it does is it enables us to be comfortable that OpenAI is putting guardrails essentially around how these are used.”

That is certainly one interpretation of the deal; another is that the deal is in fact a demonstration that Disney’s model is, as I noted above, predicated on not having a dependency on individual humans. And, contra Iger’s assertion, this does represent a threat to creators, because the only scarce resource is time and attention: to the extent this initiative is successful is the extent to which consumers are spending more time with Disney’s assets than they are consuming the work of actual humans.

### Totems in an AI World

One of the theses I have had about AI has been a self-serving one: I believe that content like Stratechery’s will become more valuable in an AI-dominated world, not less. Moreover, I think this thesis holds even if Gemini or ChatGPT becomes better at analysis than I am. The reason for this belief is the fact that LLM-derived AI is the ultimate manifestation of the individualization of content. I don’t know if this is true, but it seems likely that LLMs have already generated more text than all of humanity ever has; the reason I cannot know is the same reason why it hasn’t left a mark: AI content is generated individually for each individual user of AI.

This Update, on the other hand, is being read by tens of thousands of people, and they are all reading the exact same thing as everybody else. This is from one perspective a bad thing: wouldn’t it be great to have my content perfectly customized for your interest? I think the more compelling angle, however, is that because my content is the same for everyone it provides a useful totem pole for discussion and community. If you and your co-worker are both subscribers, you have something to talk about, confident that you are starting from the same Update; you don’t get that from AI.

The corollary here is that I can see Disney’s brands becoming more valuable in an AI world as well, and Sora is a perfect example. One thing that OpenAI got right with the initial launch was the concept of cameos, where you can put your likeness into videos, and make that likeness available to others; cameos were a totem that made the videos you generated fundamentally more interesting to people you knew (or who knew the person in the cameo), giving you a reason to watch. Indeed, if you remember back to the first week of Sora, the chief totem was OpenAI CEO Sam Altman — anyone who had access to Sora at the beginning was almost certainly intensely interested in AI, so one of the central figures in AI was an obvious person to anchor videos on.

The problem with cameos, however, is that not everyone enabled them — I never did — and that the universality of such totems was fundamentally limited to your network, if you even had one (or one that logged into Sora regularly). What actually has seemed to happen is that Sora has been intensely interesting to people who are interested in creating videos, and not very interesting to those who wish to consume them — [the 90-9-1 axiom I wrote about when Sora launched](<https://stratechery.com/2025/sora-the-app-sonnet-4-5-and-the-question-of-models-as-processors/>) seems to have held up, at least in broad strokes. Social networks are nice, but there is a reason Meta chased TikTok past them.

In this view, then, Disney’s assets are potential totems. Everyone knows who Mickey Mouse is; ergo, using Mickey Mouse for some absurd AI video is, by default, more interesting than using some random animal, or a person who most people don’t recognize. Granted, it is still AI slop, and maybe most people will never be as interested in that as they are in actual humans, but it is AI slop that at least has the possibility of spreading broadly. And, if it does, Disney has not put the framework in place to profit.

### Google Versus the World

The other thing that interests me about this deal is that it is a further manifestation of a theme that has become very clear over the last couple of months: it really is Google versus the world. To go back to [the chatbot and chip wars](<https://stratechery.com/2025/google-nvidia-and-openai/>), Google is trying to win at every level of the stack, from products to models to chips. It’s OpenAI and Nvidia, meanwhile, who are the champions of a much more modular approach.

This deal fits in that framework. Google — at least according to Disney — is very much following its approach to the web, which is to focus on maximum scalability and avoid the mess of business deals and access rules and whatnot. Google Search wouldn’t be as dominant as it is if Google had had to make deals with everyone it wanted to index; similarly, it’s easy to imagine Google adopting the policy that it’s not making deals for anything unless it absolutely has to. That’s the best way to bring its infrastructure to bear; deals are simply grist in the flywheel.

That, by extension, is an opportunity for OpenAI. The “startup” doesn’t have anything close to the infrastructure Google has; ergo, it is very much in OpenAI’s interest to continue to set the precedent that deals are a part of doing business. After all, deals are an area where OpenAI isn’t structurally disadvantaged.

More generally, I’ll repeat an observation I made after Gemini 3 launched: one of the weirdest things about analyzing the current moment is how the three biggest AI labs seem stuck in lanes that don’t entirely fit them. Google is the consumer giant, delivering at scale, but ChatGPT was first to the consumer space; ChatGPT is the subscription-based productivity tool, but its biggest asset is a massive user base that is best supported through advertising; Anthropic, meanwhile, has the biggest enterprise business, but also has the model that is actually the most consumer friendly (but barely used by consumers at all).

To that end, I think Disney in particular is playing this well. Google’s preference is surely to move to a YouTube-like model where copyrighted material isn’t banned but simply shifts the monetization payout; this is a solution that scales. Disney, though, wants more, and OpenAI is motivated to give it to them, particularly if it makes it that much more difficult for Google to scale seamlessly.

* * *

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, [visit Stratechery](<https://stratechery.passport.online/>).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

* * *

Add to your podcast player: [Stratechery](<https://stratechery.passport.online/>) | [Sharp Tech](<https://sharptech.fm/>) | [Dithering](<https://dithering.passport.online/>) | [Sharp China](<https://sharpchina.fm/>) | [GOAT](<https://goat.passport.online/>) | [Asianometry](<https://asianometry.passport.online/>)

* * *

Subscription Information
[Manage your account](<https://stratechery.passport.online/>)
